car-to-car reliable communication in a
dynamic radio channel wireless
communication is now part of our daily
lives yet up to now vehicles have mainly
relied on integrated sensors radar or
video to take account of their
surroundings in future vehicles will all
be connected in a wireless radio network
radio has the big advantage that it can
communicate danger warnings or upcoming
traffic jams to all the vehicles in a
given area without any need for visual
contact and that is especially important
when it comes to time critical hazardous
situations car to car communication uses
the Wi-Fi standard 802 11 P for radio
transmission yet at higher speeds
transmission data is lost due to the
dynamic radio channel to ensure traffic
security manufactures of communication
modules are working on products that can
also communicate reliably in a dynamic
radio channel the Fraunhofer highly Katz
Institute HHI has scrutinized the
characteristics of the radio channel and
developed a channel emulator software
that can test modules under real-world
conditions this software can perform
real-time simulations of traffic
situations on motorways and country
roads or in towns and cities in city
traffic situations for instance a broad
variety of different junctions must be
considered buildings around the junction
are a good way of reflecting radio waves
junctions with no buildings around them
are problematic to investigate such a
broad array of situations found Hova HHI
has developed its own channel sounder
which records measurement data of the
wireless channel in high resolution
quality these data offer the basis for
simulation in the channel emulator this
means that field tests can now be
conducted in a lab now particularly
problematic communication center
can be directly played out on the
emulator in addition data can be
analyzed structured and processed in a
channel model to make generally valid
statements about typical traffic
situations
the channel emulator software then
simulates the various scenarios and the
packet delivery rate of the modules is
measured up to eight modules can
simultaneously communicate with one
another with its channel sounder and
channel emulator software found Hova HHI
offers an ideal environment for the
testing of modules for car to car
communication the need for high cost
field tests is eliminated and
development time is also reduced
customers of hound Hova HHI are given a
precise analysis of their modules
transmission performance for
communication scenarios where
transmission is particularly problematic
customers receive detailed measurement
data in the form of software with the
analyses and software by phone Hova HHI
manufactures and users can now evaluate
compare and optimize their modules
the channel sounder and channel emulator
software are flowin Hoffa h/h eyes
contribution to a future of smart
networking and reliably communicating
road vehicles